All right, so let's review some
of the binary operators that we had a quick overview
of in the last video.
So I'm going to create a new class in this
project -- with the operators project.
"Binary Operator Examples" is what I'll call it.
I'm going to paste some code in.
All right, so what I've done first
with this initial code is include
all the multiplicative and editive
operators in one statement using
no parentheses, defaulting to Java's precedence.
I've stated that multiplicative operators,
which include multiplication,
division and Modulus operators take precedence
over additive operators, which are the plus and minus
operators.
So if we run this, we can see the result on the screen.
So moving on, let's actually add some
additional code for the Modulus,
or remainder operator as it's also known as.
Now, you've probably seen this operator
used in example code that evaluates
odd to even numbers -- I think I've
even got an example of that in
my Java masterclass on Udemy --
but let's explore it a bit deeper.
So, I'm going to paste some more code in here.
So in this code I've pasted, I've
included an example where the dividend
is greater than the divisor.
Remember that the divisor is on the right-hand
side of the operator, so clearly the
example there is on line 31.
But I've also got an example there
we're looping three examples
where the dividend is less than the divisor.
Now these always evaluate to the same
value as the dividend, so let's actually run this.
And you can see the output.
Keep in mind, obviously -- I think
I've said it a few times -- but this code,
every single bit of code is available
for you to download and paste into your IDE
and test because you might find
that in some situations you learn a lot faster
by doing that, so grab the code if you need to.
But getting back to Modulus, in C and C++,
Modulus accepts only integral operands
but Java accepts floating-point operands as well.
So, I want to add a similar example to
what I did with the integer test there,
specifically with the full loop,
but I want to do it for some double values,
some floating-point values, to show you
what happens in that scenario.
So there's the code there, this time
using doubles instead of ints.
Now if we run this, you can see the output,
it's all showing there on the screen.
It really just proved, the code segment's
really just proving the same point that
even with floating-point numbers,
that the result equals the dividend
if the divisor is greater than the dividend.
There is a difference in functionality
between using integers and floating-point
numbers with the Modulus operator,
so I want to show you that as well
with another code snippet.
So on line 58 we're dividing by zero as an integer
but on line 66 we're dividing by zero,
this time using effectively a double.
If we run this, as you can see in the case
of integer operands there's a runtime
where a runtime exception will occur,
and you can see that we've got that there
showing the errors on line 58.
And obviously as a result, we can catch that
and print that, which we're doing here.
But for double values, note that no exception
is drawn, but the result's an NaN.
NaN, as you're probably aware, is a special
"not a number" value, and the NaN value
is used in Java to represent the result
of certain invalid operations
such as dividing by zero.
But the bottom line is that we didn't
get an exception when we're using a floating-point number.
Next we want to have a quick look at the shift operators.
So there's the code, and I'll
just go back up to the top there,
you can see the code's pasted from line 72 onwards.
So I'm showing a few examples
of the shift operator here.
The first one I'm demonstrating is the
left shift sign, which is the code
snippet starting on line 72, and
I'm demonstrating 8 bits of a 32 bit Int there.
And moving down, we've got our right shift
and that's starting on line 81, demonstrating
8 bits of a 32 bit Int again.
And next, a right shift unsigned,
you can see here starting on line 89.
I'm showing both right shifts and the different results.
Note that the unsigned shift populates
the leftmost bit, the signed bit,
with 0 as the bits are shifted right.
All right, so let's run this.
And there's the result of our shift operator code.
So next what I want to do is combine
some examples of the relationship operators
with the logical operators for (OR) and (AND),
remembering that the bitwise operators
aren't tested in the course, so we
won't be going into any detail with those.
So I'll paste that in.
Okay, so there's the code.
If we go back up to the top there,
you can see the code starting there on line 103.
So what I'm trying to do here is demonstrate
less than and less than, equal in expressions
using the postfix increment unity operator
to confirm which expressions are evaluated.
Moving on, we're demonstrating next the logical (OR),
and that's again using postfix increment unity
operator to confirm which expressions were evaluated.
Demonstrating next the Conditional Logical (OR),
using the postfix increment unity operator
to confirm which expressions are evaluated.
Now, the Conditional Logical (OR) operator
is also known as the shirt-circuiting (OR)
because it skips the right-hand expression
if it can be evaluated to true without it.
So I've actually run the code now, and
you can see the output down at the bottom.
So next we want to look at the Logical (AND),
as well as the Conditional (AND),
so I've got some more code to paste in here.
So there's the code that I've pasted in there now.
If we just go back up and have a look,
there's the code starting on line 143.
So we're doing both a Logical (AND)
test there, and then we're moving on down,
we've got Conditional (AND)s as well.
And in terms of the actual tests here,
I'm demonstrating greater than and
greater than, equal in expressions using the
prefix increment unity operator
to confirm which expressions are evaluated.
So initially at the top there, I'm
demonstrating a Logical (AND) using
the prefix increment unity operator,
again to confirm which expressions are evaluated.
And moving on down, we've got the Conditional
(AND) operator there, two ampersands using
prefix increment unity operator to confirm
which expressions are evaluated.
The Conditional Logical (AND) -- that's
the two ampersands -- is also known as
the short-circuiting "and" because it skips
the right-hand expression if it can
be evaluated to false without it.
So, we're running this code and
probably shouldn't really be any
real surprises there for you either.
So that's the end of the video here.
In the next video, we'll look at
the remainder of the binary operators.
See you in the next video!